Hidden Depths is an adult-rated action-RPG roguelite with dating game and life sim elements. The player is a student at a magic academy, along with a number of other students and instructors. Gameplay is divided between visual novel-style interactions with other characters (increasing relationships, uncovering stories), time and resource management minigames (choosing classes to attend, spending resources on improving relationships or developing magic rituals to empower the player), and exploring the dungeons beneath the school (action RPG combat similar to Hades.) 

Player development is tied to their relationship with the characters. The magic system is focused on empowering people and items using [[Rituals]] which are fueled by [[Intimacy]] - a measure of how comfortable and connected an NPC feels to the player. Players design rituals using a combination of items and intimate actions to produce a spell effect that improves some aspect of their character or their equipment. More powerful effects require a greater connection with the assistant(s) involved in the ritual.

Player resources are time (a limited amount of time between each dungeon dive), [[Endurance]] which limits the number of actions each ritual can consist of, [[Intimacy]] with NPCs which limit how powerful their rituals can be, [[Equipment]] which give bonuses and special abilities in the combat phase of the game, [[Ritual Items]] which are used in designing rituals, and [[Spells]] which are effects that are applied to the player and largely influence the combat phase by providing bonuses or special abilities.  

NPC storylines involve a combination of small gestures (gifts, choosing correct dialogue options) which take no additional time, larger gestures (dates, assisting NPCs with their own project) which do consume the player's limited time, and milestone stories when the player reaches intimacy thresholds and is able to perform more powerful rituals with the NPC.

